feat: Create Bazzite Buzz No. 5.md (#529)
ublue-os/website: docs/blog/posts/bazzite-buzz-05.md

  - Bazzite 1.0: https://universal-blue.org/blog/2023/08/20/bazzite-10/
---
![](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/ryvAQvC16.jpg)
<hr>

<p style="text-align: center; font-weight: 600; color: red">IMPORTANT: MANUAL INTERVENTION REQUIRED</p>

If you installed a Bazzite image on any device **before September 22, 2023** or used the **older offline ISO** then open a host terminal and enter `rpm-ostree update`, and wait for it to upgrade to the latest build.  Reboot your device after it has finished.  More information on this [here](https://github.com/ublue-os/bazzite/issues/382).
<hr>

<p style="font-weight:900; font-size: 25px">Welcome to Bazzite Buzz #5!</p>

Bazzite is a custom image of Fedora 38 designed to being the best in Linux gaming to your PCs, including the Steam Deck. This newsletter highlights all the work we have been doing to bring gamers the best goodies for their PCs and handheld gaming devices.

If you are new to a Universal Blue project then here's how they work then here's how they work. They follow the [continuous delivery](https://continuousdelivery.com/) methodology of development. That means we're constantly adding new things, so let's get started!

> We have been preparing for the stable release of Fedora 38 and will plan to switch builds over there within the next two weeks.  Nvidia images for ASUS and Microsoft Surface hardware is now available.  We also added dependencies needed for the [DaVinci Resolve](https://www.blackmagicdesign.com/products/davinciresolve) video editor in case you wanted that.  The [`unrar`](https://github.com/aawc/unrar) library is included in the image which should resolve issues users may experience with certain compressed file formats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have been preparing for the stable release of Fedora 39 and will plan to switch builds over there within the next two weeks.  Nvidia images for ASUS and Microsoft Surface hardware is now available.  We also added dependencies needed for the [DaVinci Resolve](https://www.blackmagicdesign.com/products/davinciresolve) video editor in case you wanted that.  The [`unrar`](https://github.com/aawc/unrar) library is included in the image which should resolve issues users may experience with certain compressed file formats.
```
I think you mean 39?

![](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/HJ7I-9jlp.png)

<p style="text-align: left;font-weight: bold;font-size: 12px">Bazzite Portal has new additions</p>

Bazzite Portal now features more software including the [Brew package manager](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew), [OpenTabletDriver](https://github.com/OpenTabletDriver/OpenTabletDriver), and [Wootility](https://wootility.io/).  It also features the unofficial [Final Fantasy XIV launcher](https://github.com/goatcorp/FFXIVQuickLauncher) since it works better on Linux.

> Steam Deck images now include a ton of performance optimizations taken from this [Medium article](https://medium.com/@a.b.t./here-are-some-possibly-useful-tweaks-for-steamos-on-the-steam-deck-fcb6b571b577).  These tweaks in theory should give a slight performance increase versus stock SteamOS, but we never attempted benchmarks yet to actually confirm this.  Maybe for a later time unless someone out there wants to volunteer and [benchmark](https://github.com/flightlessmango/MangoHud#fps-logging) both operating systems themself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Steam Deck images now include a ton of performance optimizations taken from this [Medium article](https://medium.com/@a.b.t./here-are-some-possibly-useful-tweaks-for-steamos-on-the-steam-deck-fcb6b571b577).  These tweaks in theory should give a slight performance increase versus stock SteamOS, but we never attempted benchmarks yet to actually confirm this.  Maybe for a later time unless someone out there wants to volunteer and [benchmark](https://github.com/flightlessmango/MangoHud#fps-logging) both operating systems.
```

> Waydroid support has also been both streamlined and improved tremendously.  Controllers, including the Steam Deck's contorls, should work well with it now.  Steam Deck images should have a working quick access menu with it and plus the addition of the framerate limiter working with Android applications to our surprise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Waydroid support has also been both streamlined and improved tremendously.  Controllers, including the Steam Deck's controls, should work well with it now.  Steam Deck images should have a working quick access menu with it and plus the addition of the framerate limiter working with Android applications to our surprise.
```

![](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/BJV4J75l6.png)

<p style="text-align: left;font-weight: bold;font-size: 12px">Waydroid on the Steam Deck running in Game Mode</p>

> Open a host terminal and enter `just init-waydroid` and it should setup Waydroid for you.  Keep in mind you may need to set SELinux to permissive, but there has been conflicting reports on this.  If you are experiencing issues then enter `sudo nano /etc/selinux/config` and changing `SELINUX=enforcing` to `SELINUX=permissive`.  If you want extra goodies to Waydroid like ARM translation then enter `just configure-waydroid`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open a host terminal and enter `just init-waydroid` and it should setup Waydroid for you.  Keep in mind you may need to set SELinux to permissive, but there has been conflicting reports on this.  If you are experiencing issues then enter `sudoedit /etc/selinux/config` and changing `SELINUX=enforcing` to `SELINUX=permissive`.  If you want extra goodies to Waydroid like ARM translation then enter `just configure-waydroid`.
```

> We are now focusing on having an extremely stable and consistent experience across different hardware.  We are also planning on proper support for the ASUS ROG Ally and other handheld PCs, and have already accomplished some of the ground work necessary.  We still urge that both the ROG Ally and other handheld PCs are still only in the testing  phase at this moment, and users will encounter major issues until they are resolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are now focusing on having an extremely stable and consistent experience across different hardware.  We are also planning on proper support for the ASUS ROG Ally and other handheld PCs, and have already accomplished some of the ground work necessary.  We still consider both the ROG Ally and other handheld PCs as an alpha at this moment, and users will encounter major issues until they are resolved.
```
